# Analyzing-Retail-Sales-From-2010
We analyzed 2010 weekly sales data from https://www.kaggle.com/manjeetsingh/retaildataset 

To start, we downloaded three retail data sets from historical sales from 45 stores and 81 different departments with four prominent holidays located in different regions. The three data sets contained information on sales, store features, and stores. The dates in the sales data set range from January 10, 2010 to December 31, 2010 and contain 48 unique dates. This data set also contains weekly sales for a particular department in a store as well as whether or not it was a holiday. In addition to store number, date, and whether or not it is a holiday, the store features data set includes information on variables such as temperature in degrees Fahrenheit, fuel price in that store’s region, information about five markdowns, Consumer Price Index (CPI), and unemployment rates in that region. The five markdowns relate to anonymized data related to promotional markdowns or discounts. CPI is the measure of the average change over time in the prices paid for goods and services. The store dataset includes additional information about type and size. We found that type was related to size, with type A being of the largest size and type C being of the smallest size. Type was also found to be related to weekly sales, with type A having the most overall weekly sales and type C having the least overall weekly sales.

The goal of our analysis was to see how holidays effect weekly sales. When looking at the dates corresponding to a True ‘IsHoliday’ value; these dates are October 9th, November 26th, December 2nd, and December 31st, 2010. These dates, with the exception of the weeks of Thanksgiving and New Years, do not fall directly on any major holidays, which led us to question any analysis using this column. We continued questioning the validity of the holidays assigned (the only holiday for the week of October 9 is Leif Erikson Day, which doesn't make any sense while Christmas week isn't considered a holiday in this data). We created a new holiday column which has 'True'  values on the week of the Super Bowl, Labor Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas. 

We did see that there were peaks in sales corresponding to certain holidays, we wanted to explore this further than plotting IsHoliday and Weekly Sales. We saw some variations in weekly sales based on departments and stores. Moreover, we saw that type C had the smallest difference between weekly sales during holidays and non holidays while types A and B had bigger differences. Overall we found that holidays do have an effect on retail sales for most stores and departments. However, for some stores and departments, that effect was less noticeable. The winter holidays of Thanksgiving and Christmas had the largest impact on weekly sales. We saw that unemployment, CPI, fuel price, and temperature had little effect on weekly sales based on whether or not it was a holiday. 
